pi-bose
=======

This repo is a fork of pi-rc, which has been modified to be able to transmit a single command to a Bose stereo whose remote operates at 27.148Mhz, such as the old Lifestyle series of Bose stereos.  This repo is a work in progress.  It currently works on my Raspberry Pi 3 with a breadboard and a 6 inch wire inserted into a hole for GPIO 4 (pin 7) to send commands to my Bose Lifestyle (series 12? - purchased in the mid 2000s).  A json file describing the on/off key frequencies must be supplied to -i for it to transmit the desired command.

pi-rc
=====

pi-rc is a program that turns your Raspberry Pi into a radio controller for RC
cars without any additional hardware. With it, you should be able to drive just
about any cheap toy-grade RC car programmatically with your Raspberry Pi.

Note that running this program turns your Pi into a rather powerful radio
transmitter. Do not use this code unless you understand what it does, what
frequencies it might interfere with, what frequencies are allowed, what is
legal in your country, etc. I assume no responsibility for your actions or for
any problems running this program may cause.

Getting started
---------------

pi-rc should work with most toy-grade RC cars, i.e. ones that only drive
forward, backward, left, and right. To get started, place a jumper cable on
GPIO pin 4 (that's pin 7 on the revision B board, see [this
diagram](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/9/97/Raspberrypi_pcb_overview_Pinout_v01.svg)
to act as an antenna and compile the `pi_pcm` program on your Raspberry Pi and
run it as root:

    make
    sudo -s
    ./pi_pcm

Every RC car I've seen uses a different set of command codes, so you'll need to
use another program that iterates through possible command codes and watches
the RC car to see if it responds. Once it does, it will save the image and the
command that caused the car to move.

To run this search, you'll need a computer with a webcam or an Android phone.
iPhones won't work because Safari doesn't allow access to the camera.
Run `./pi_pcm -v` on the  Raspberry Pi so that it can start broadcasting
commands. Also run `python3 host_files.py` on the Raspberry Pi, and open a
browser either on the Pi or on a separate computer and visit
https://<Pi-IP-address>:4443/watch.html. Firefox and Chrome have been tested and
confirmed as working, but Safari will not work.

Place the car in an area where you can control the lighting and avoid changes
in ambient lighting, such as a closet, and turn the car on. If your car is
darkly colored, try to place it against a white background, for example by
putting a piece of paper behind it. Point the webcam at it. In the web page,
set the frequency to the car's frequency. Most toy-grade RC cars in the US
run in the 27 or 49 MHz band, which should be printed on the car. Most
cars run in a specific frequency in the 27 or 49 MHz band, such as 27.255; if
you don't know the car's exact frequency, just pick the middle value in that
range, e.g. 49.860 MHz for 49 MHz. Click "Start Monitoring". The web page will
start sending different commands and checking for movement.

Once the browser sees the car move, the image from the webcam will freeze and
the parameters of the command that it just broadcast will be preserved.

Now that you have the basic command structure, you can search for the specific
commands to make it drive. Visit https://<Pi-IP-address>:4443/control.html.
This page will prompt you for the values found from the search, and then ask
you repeatedly to enter different signal bursts. Try entering values from 1-100
and see how the car reacts.  Certain values should make the car drive some
combination of forward/reverse + left/right.

Once you have all of the signals, you can save the information in a JSON file
and use control.html to control the car.

Signals
-------

[How Stuff Works](http://electronics.howstuffworks.com/rc-toy2.htm) has a good
explanation of what the command signals for toy RC cars look like. One thing to
note is that the Raspberry Pi cannot reliably stop broadcasting for a certain
amount of time, so it instead broadcasts at a different frequency to simulate
the pauses.

Programming
-----------

That's fun and all, but the real fun in my mind comes from buying an external
battery pack for the Raspberry Pi, taping it to the top of the car, and turning
it into an autonomous vehicle. I've tried to make it easy to send commands to
the controller program.

The `pi_pcm` program listens for JSON-formatted commands over TCP port 12345 by
default. You can also have it listen over UDP by using the `-u` option.

Messages are formatted as an array of objects with the following fields defined:

<table>
    <tr>
        <td>frequency</td>
        <td>The frequency that the car runs at.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>dead_frequency</td>
        <td>
            Another frequency to simulate a "pause" in broadcasting.  If you
            are in the United States and your car is running in the 27 MHz
            band, 49.890 MHz should be a safe signal here, and for cars in 49
            MHz, try 26.995. DO NOT use frequencies outside of the normal range
            for toy RC cars, and make sure you comply with all regulations in
            your country.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>burst_us</td>
        <td>The length of a signal burst in microseconds.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>spacing</td>
        <td>The length of a signal spacing in microseconds.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>repeats</td>
        <td>The number of times to broadcast the message.</td>
    </tr>
</table>

A typical command might look like:

    [
        {
            "frequency": 26.995,
            "dead_frequency": 49.830,
            "burst_us": 1200,
            "spacing_us": 400,
            "repeats": 4
        },
        {
            "frequency": 26.995,
            "dead_frequency": 49.830,
            "burst_us": 400,
            "spacing_us": 400,
            "repeats": 40
        }
    ]

where the first object is the synchronization signal and the second is the
command signal.  The Pi will continue broadcasting a given command until a new
command is received. If you want to stop the car from moving, try sending a
signal repeat that doesn't correspond to any action from the RC car.
